[MUSIC]
We now have a very nice algorithm for
the set cover problem,
the sample-and-iterate algorithm.
Let us now turn to its analysis.
As a reminder, the algorithm
repeatedly picks a set at random
with probability proportional to x sub s,
put it in the cover,
and stops once the set's
chosen from a set cover.
How do we analyze this?
This is perhaps the trickiest
analysis in this chapter and
maybe in the entire course.
So we have to go slowly and pay attention.
First, sum notations.
How do we express the cost of the output?
The cost of the output is
the sum over every step
of the cost of the set
chosen at iteration t.
What is the range of t?
T goes all the way to capital T,
the total number of iterations,
which is something random,
the stopping time of our process.
So the cost of the output is the sum over
all t, from 1 to capital T, of C sub t.
This is what we want to analyze.
How do we analyze it?
It's a random quantity.
We're going to analyze its expected value.
Expected value of a sum from t going
from 1 to capital T of C sub t.
What did I tell you in my last discussion?
When we have the expectation of the sum,
we invert summations and expectation.
So we'd like to write that this
is the sum of the expectations.
Except there's a problem here.
T itself is random.
So we'd like to write that this is
capital T times the expected value of Ct.
Or we'd like to write that this is
the sum of all t from 1 to capital T
of the expected value of C sub t.
But what do we do with capital T?
Capital T is random so we cannot
exchange expectation and summation here.
So we have a problem here.
We cannot apply the recipe
I gave last time.
So what do we do now?
We turn to probablists and
ask them for a trick.
And here it is.
If we have a stopping time, if we have
some random variables bounded from above.
If the expected value of X sub t is
less than u, and the stopping time and
expectation is less than infinity,
then the expected value
of the sum of X sub t is less than mu
times the expectation of capital T.
This is one way in which we sort of
invert expectation and summation.
So as soon as we have an upper bound for
X sub t,
then we can use it and invert summations
and we can continue our analysis.
So the next step will be let's try to
analyze the expected value of X sub t and
bounded from above.
What is X sub t in our case?
X sub t is the cost of
a set chosen at time t.
So we want to upper bound
the expected value of C sub t,
the expected cost of
a set chosen at time t.
What is it?
It's equal to the sum over every
set of the indicated function
of whether that set is chosen at time t.
And you think expectations.
And then what do you do?
You invert expectation and summation.
You have an expectation
of an indicator function.
And what do you do if
this is a probability?
We have done this before, I'll skip this.
And sum of every set of
the probability that this set is
chosen during a duration t
times the cost of a set.
What is the probability that S is chosen?
We said X sub s divided by
the sum of all Xs for all sets.
So we've replaced the probability by this
by its value, and we get this expression
in the numerator,
sum of every s of x sub s cs.
Denominator, sum of every s of x sub s.
This is independent of little t.
Let's call this mu.
Now we can apply Wald's equation,
and what do we get?
The expected cost of
the output is the expected
number of iterations times mu
where mu is this quantity.
So to analyze the cost of the output,
now we need to look at the expected value
of T, the expected number of iterations.
Once we have that, we will know the value
of the expected cost of the output.
So what is the expected
number of iterations?
For that, we'll need more notations.
How do we determine
the number of iterations?
It depends on whether the sets
we have chosen from a set cover.
How do we know that?
We have to look at the elements
that are not yet covered.
Let us define n sub T as the number
of elements that are not yet
covered after t iterations.
What do we know about n sub T?
Initially, no element is covered.
n0 is n.
In the end, every element is covered,
n capital T is zero.
Right before the end,
we are not quite done yet.
At least one element is not yet covered.
So nT-1 is at least 1.
How will this be useful
to analyze capital T?
The answer is Wald's equation for
dependent decrements.
What is this?
Consider a random decreasing sequence.
We will apply it for our n sub Ts.
And the stopping time, T,
whose expectation is finite.
Assume that a certain property
is satisfied on the n sub ts,
how they change at each
step in expectation.
Then we have an upper bound for
the expected value of t of
the total number of durations.
So in order to bound e sub t, e of t, we
want this expression as our upper bound.
And for that, we need to analyze
the change in n sub t over one step.
The number of elements not yet
covered at time t versus a time t plus 1.
Consider this.
What does this represent?
You condition on n sub t.
You assume you know how many
elements are not yet covered.
n sub t- n sub t + 1 is exactly
the number of elements that
will be covered in the next iteration,
in iteration t + 1.
And we want the expectation, so
let's fix an element E among the n
sub t that are not yet covered.
And let's look at the probability that
E is covered in the next iteration.
The probability that it's covered
is the probability that the set S
that is chosen by the algorithm at
iteration t + 1 contains element E.
What is that?
It's the sum of every set containing E
of the probability that S is chosen.
X sub s, normalized.
And what do we know about this?
Well, because of the LP
relaxation constraint,
we know that this is at least 1.
And therefore,
we know that this quantity is at least
1 over the sum of all the x sub s's.
Sum over every element, and
this gives us our desired
lower bound on the expected value
of nt minus nt plus 1 given nt.
What is this lower bound?
It's the sum, this expected value
is at least n sub t over the sum.
All right.
The expected value of the change given n
sub t is at least n sub t over this sum.
This is our function f of n sub t.
And so now, we can apply Wald's
equation for dependent decrements.
And what do we get?
The expected value of capital T is at
most 1 plus expected value of integral.
Integral of what?
Let's see.
N sub t- 1 is at least 1.
N sub 0 is n.
And what is f of z?
1 over f of z is the sum
of all the x sub s's
over n sub t for z over z.
So here we go.
And this integral,
we can take the sum out, and
we know that this integral
is exactly a logarithm.
So we get this upper bound
on the expected value of T,
1 plus the sum of the x
sub s times the log of n.
Put everything together.
The expected cost of the output is at
most the expected value of capital T,
1 plus the sum of the x's by the log of
n times the expected cost of c sub t,
which is this quantity here,
sum of csxs over the sum of the xs.
What is this?
Since the numerator is
the objective of the LP,
this is at most 1 + log n times OPT.
So what have we proved?
We've proved that the algorithm,
the sample-and-iterate algorithm gives
as an output a collection of
sets that is a set cover and
the average cost of the output
is at most 1 + log n times OPT.
Very good.
So we're almost done.
We've set cover.
What remains to be done?
I will discuss further
improvements In particular,
how to remove the word
average from the theorem.
Then I will discuss possible or
impossible improvements, and finally
give you a little bit of background about
the people who have worked on this.